Background search in Discover and Dashboards (#3455)
elastic/docs-content: explore-analyze/discover/background-search.md

---

# Run Discover and Dashboards queries in the background

::::{important} - Background search replaces Search sessions

Background search is a feature introduced in version 9.2. It replaces the deprecated **Search sessions** feature.
If you have been using search sessions and upgrade to 9.2, your search sessions aren't lost and become background searches.
::::

Sometimes you might need to search through large amounts of data, no matter how long the search takes. Consider a threat hunting scenario, where you need to search through years of data. 

You can send your long-running searches to the background from **Discover** or **Dashboards** and let them run while you continue your work. 

You can access your list of background searches at any time to check their status and manage them from the {icon}`background_task` **Background searches** button in the toolbar.

![Send search to background](https://images.contentstack.io/v3/assets/bltefdd0b53724fa2ce/bltee31dcf0d3917c75/68ecf412e5bae49d65a286ff/background-search.gif " =75%")

## Enable background searches

> This feature is disabled by default. You can enable background searches in versions 9.2 and higher, or search sessions in versions 9.1 and lower, by setting [`data.search.sessions.enabled`](kibana://reference/configuration-reference/search-sessions-settings.md) to `true` in the [`kibana.yml`](/deploy-manage/stack-settings.md) configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature is disabled by default. You can enable background searches in versions 9.2 and later, or search sessions in versions 9.1 and earlier, by setting [`data.search.sessions.enabled`](kibana://reference/configuration-reference/search-sessions-settings.md) to `true` in the [`kibana.yml`](/deploy-manage/stack-settings.md) configuration file.
```
There may be other instances that require consistency.

* To save a session, you must have permissions for **Discover** and **Dashboard**, and the [Search sessions subfeature](../../deploy-manage/users-roles/cluster-or-deployment-auth/kibana-privileges.md#kibana-feature-privileges).
* To view and restore a saved session, you must have access to **Stack Management**.
::::

:::::

## Send a search to the background

You can send a search to the background only after it starts running. Until then, the **Send to background** button is disabled.

1. Write or edit the query.

1. Select {icon}`play` **Run** (or {icon}`refresh` **Refresh** if you already ran the query at least once) to start executing the query. At this point, the {icon}`background_task` **Send to background** button becomes available.

1. Select {icon}`background_task` **Send to background**. The search is sent to the background and added to the queue of background searches.

You can resume your other tasks, for example start a new search, navigate to a different application, or close the browser. Once the search has completed, a notification informs you and lets you access the search to view its results.

> Background searches expire after 7 days. Beyond that period, you must run the search again.

Author: ```suggestion
Background searches expire after 7 days. Beyond that period, you must run the search again. You can change this default value by editing the [`data.search.sessions.defaultExpiration`](kibana://reference/configuration-reference/search-sessions-settings.md) setting.
```

   - If you miss the notification or need to access this list at any time, go to **Discover** or **Dashboards** and select the {icon}`background_task` **Background searches** button in the toolbar. This option is only available from version 9.2.

     :::{tip}
     From **Discover**, you can only view Discover background searches. And from **Dashboards**, you can only see Dashboards background searches.
     :::
   - Open the **Background Search** management page in {{kib}}.

1. Find the background search that you want to interact with using the search or status filter options.
   - To open it to view its results and continue your explorations, select its name. Relative dates are converted to absolute dates.
   - To rename it, select the {icon}`boxes_horizontal` **More actions** button, then select {icon}`pencil` **Edit name**. By default, background searches get default names that indicate their execution date and time.
   - To extend its current expiration date by another 7 days, select the {icon}`boxes_horizontal` More actions button, then select **Extend**.
   - To delete it, select the {icon}`boxes_horizontal` More actions button, then select {icon}`trash` **Delete**.

> ## Background search limitations in dashboards [_limitations]

Reviewer 2: I don't see too many anchors that start with an underscore, so flagging this in case you wanted to modify it.
